# U6-JavaScript-Interacting-with-DOM

1.  About this Course - Along with selecting DOM elements in JavaScript we can also write code that gives elements behavior. In this course we will first explore how to watch for interaction and respond using the method addEventListener. We'll learn about different types of events and how we can use the relationships between elements to write more powerful code.
2. What is an Event? - One reason JavaScript is a powerful programming language is because it allows developers to respond to user interactions and changes in the browser. We can write JavaScript code to detect when different events occur and make changes to the browser in response.
3. Functions as Parameters - To understand how JavaScript can respond to user events, we first need to understand a little bit more about functions. Functions are often called first class citizens in JavaScript. This means just like other data types, they can be stored in variables, and most importantly, passed into other functions.
4. Listening for Events with addEventListener() - In the JavaScript and the DOM course you practiced selecting elements. This will be helpful as selecting elements is the first step in watching for events. Once an element is selected, we can use a powerful method called addEventListener to listen for events, then make changes to that element or parts of the web page.
5. Event Bubbling and Delegation - So far we've been able to respond to user events. There's an interesting thing happening behind the scenes, though, when an event takes place. An event received by an element doesn't stop with that one element. That event moves to other elements -- the parent, and other ancestors of the element.